hey guys what's up and welcome back to
another Elder Scrolls lore today we're
gonna be continuing our timeline of the
Aldmeri Dominion today we're gonna be
talking about the second all married
Dominion its ultimate huge rise to power
and eventually the great war so let's
get started in the 98th year of the
fourth era there came a period known as
the void Knights in which the twin moons
nirn Masser and Secunda disappeared from
the sky now if you didn't know already
the Khajiit are very reliant on the
moon's the moon phases are Masser and
Secunda actually determine the form that
a Khajiit is born as Cugini can come in
many different shapes and sizes they can
be large Tiger like creatures more
animal than man looking they can also
look almost exactly like an elf so when
the moon's disappeared and the Khajiit
didn't have these moon phases anymore it
caused a lot of chaos and elsweyr the
Thalmor
were able to restore the moon to the sky
however through previously unknown dawn
magics gaining favor with the Kaji's
with the help of the Thalmor the
kingdoms of inequity and paletine broke
away from the Empire and became client
states or protector rates of the second
almarri Dominion some however say the
moons return for other reasons at the
the thumb war just claimed
responsibility to gain favor with the
Khajiit this could very much be true I'm
not sure though the Dominion now felt
powerful enough to challenge the Empire
and pulled together a military to bring
war to series o0 had not been touched by
foreign invaders since the conquests of
Tiber Septim
the men of Tamriel were in for a war
that would shatter the foundations of
the Empire they worked so hard to build
up Titus Mead knowing that conflict was
dawning dispatched his special agents
the blades to Valen went to gather
intelligence and conduct covert
operations
the Dominion however hunted down these
agents and killed many of them the
Dominion was ready for war and
especially ambassador to the imperial
city the Ambassador brought with him an
ultimatum and a gift the ultimatum was
for the Empire to pay immense tributes
to the Dominion disband the blades allow
the worship of Talos and cede large
portions of hammer
to the Dominion obviously the emperor
rejected their ultimatum the Ambassador
then presented the Dominions gift this
gift was a collection of hundreds of
severed heads of the executed blades
extant a rejection of the ultimatum the
Dominion forces led by Lord narf in I
know that's probably not how you say but
I thought how I'm saying it invaded
cyrodiil through its border with Eze
where Narva and his immense armored army
invaded southeastern sea Rideau striking
Leia win which is a town in Serie Dell
as its first target the attack came as a
surprise to the Imperial defenders and
Leia one was easily captured next the
Dominions at its site on the town of
Brazil besieging it and cutting it off
from the rest of Serie dough Rafael soon
fell all of southern sierra del was soon
in the hands of the Dominion at the same
time Hammerfell was being attacked by an
ultimate army led by a lady Aaron Elia
who was able to march from Velen wood
through Sierra del to Hammerfell
bypassing Danville and can match our
inelia and her forces invaded up the
coastline of hammerfell with additional
forces from Summerset Isles arriving
from the sea the weak red guard
resistances were defeated forcing the
Imperial Legion to retreat across the
al'akir desert in the March of thirst
meanwhile in Syria the Aldmeri Dominion
had captured the imperial city by this
time the Empire was well aware of the
attack and had the opportunity to strike
back rallying its meager forces the
Empire struck back against the almarri
Dominion with the full force of the
Imperial Legion with Imperial forces
surrounding and then regaining the
Dominion occupied Imperial City Lourdes
narro firm was hung from the white gold
tower and kept alive for 33 days this
victory did not come at a cost to the
Empire the Legion was greatly weakened
and the Empire was battle weary so the
white gold concordant was struck the
concordant was a peace treaty between
the Dominion and the Empire and these
were its terms
Talos worship was to be outlawed the
plays were to be disbanded the southern
part of Hammerfell was to become part of
the Dominion the Thalmor can move about
freely in the Empire to punish Tallis
worshippers and hostilities were to end
between the Empire and the Dominion
peace have been restored but the Empire
had basically surrendered to the terms
of the original ultimatum as well as
losing many lives so basically the term
of the original ultimatum were almost
exactly the same I'm not sure if any
tribute was paid to the Dominion but I'm
guessing there that probably was not
everyone agreed with the terms of white
gold concordant the Red Guards of
hammerfell refused to relinquish a part
of their province and continued their
fight against the Dominion five years
later the Treaty of Stroh's Makai was
formed which made the Dominion
withdrawal from hammerfell hammerfell
have won its independence not only from
the Dominion but also from the empire
that had abandoned it in addition to
right guard opposition the many tallest
worshippers of tamra / outraged
particularly in skyrim which eventually
led to the Stormcloak rebellion and well
you know the rest about that the terms
of the white gold concordant still cause
plenty of political strife to this day
the Dominion is more powerful than ever
and a new war could be on the horizon
between the Dominion and the Empire but
that is a whole other chapter of the
Elder Scrolls anyways guys thank you for
watching it was kind of fun making this
but it was a bitch I hope you guys
enjoyed it subscribe if you want to see
more of these videos or any kind of
videos that I make comment if you've got
something say but like I always say make
sure that what you're saying is
something you know is true because I do
not want and rumors here or at least
something that you can back up with
evidence or if you just want to say
something about the episode that's fine
like this video if you liked it and
thank you guys for watching and I will
see you next time